W-17514948 Exchange manage asset deletion jh (#295)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/to-delete-asset.adoc

= Deleting an Asset
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Keep your asset catalog maintained by deleting outdated or redundant assets. This makes is easier for consumers to find and reuse the assets they need. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep your asset catalog maintained by deleting outdated or redundant assets. This makes it easier for consumers to find and reuse the assets they need. 
```

> When deleting assets, admins determine if the Group ID, Asset ID, and Version (GAV) information for a deleted asset can be reused for a different asset. 

Reviewer: Here it says `Group ID, Asset ID, and Version (GAV)`, but in  modules/ROOT/pages/managing-asset-deletion.adoc it says `GAV (group ID, asset ID, and version)`, for consistency can we use the same format in both files?

> Depending on the asset, you can delete it in one of these ways:

Reviewer: `Depending on the asset` the deletion type depends on the organization settings. It works the same for all assets

* Delete and reuse the GAV.

> * Delete, but can't reuse the GAV for another asset. 

Reviewer: Delete and make the GAV available to be reused
Delete and don't allow the GAV to be reused

> After deleting an asset, it can't be recovered or undeleted.

Reviewer: `After deleting an asset, it can't be recovered or undeleted.`
We now have an endpoint to retrieve the assets that were soft deleted. Do you think it will be appropriate to mention that?

CC: @iceriani can you provide the endpoint?

Reviewer 2: The endpoint to retrieve the soft deleted assets is: `/api/v2/organizations/:organizationId/softDeleted`

Author: Hi @juanmafc-mulesoft @iceriani , does this mean that a deleted asset can be restored if it's GAV was also deleted?

Author: Where do you add this endpoint, using Exchange API [(https://qax.anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/68ef9520-24e9-4cf2-b2f5-620025690913/exchange-xapi/minor/1.0/console/summary/](https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/))

If you try to delete an asset version with dependent assets, Exchange shows a warning. Remove the dependencies and then delete the asset version.

If you try to delete an API or policy asset version with dependent API instances, Exchange shows a warning. Remove the dependencies and then delete the asset version. The *API instances* page displays each API asset's instances.

You can't delete a policy asset that is applied to any managed API instances. On the policy asset's page, the *APIs using this policy* tab shows which API instances have that policy applied. Use API Manager to remove the policy from the instances, and then delete the policy.

To delete a patch version of an asset:

. In the asset details, click *View versions*.
. Click the three dots menu and select *Delete version*.
+

> When GAV reuse is enabled, you have a option to reuse the GAV. If you don't select this option, the asset version's GAV will be deleted and can't be reused. If you select this option, the asset version's GAV can be reused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When GAV reuse is enabled, you have the option to reuse the GAV. If you don't check this option, the asset version's GAV will be deleted and will not be available to be reused. If you check this option, the asset version's GAV can be reused.
```

Author: hi @juanmafc-mulesoft CX standards is select not check. The rest of the wording is correct here.

= Deleting an Asset
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Keep your asset catalog maintained by deleting outdated or redundant assets. This makes it easier for consumers to find and reuse the assets they need. 

> When deleting assets, admins determine if the GAV (group ID, asset ID, and version) information of the deleted asset can be reused for a different asset. Therefore, when you delete an asset, you might not be able to reuse its GAV for new asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deleting assets, admins determine if the GAV (group ID, asset ID, and version) information of the deleted asset can be reused for a different asset. Therefore, when you delete an asset, you might not be able to reuse its GAV for a new asset.
```

If you try to delete an asset version with dependent assets, Exchange shows a warning. Remove the dependencies and then delete the asset version.

If you try to delete an API or policy asset version with dependent API instances, Exchange shows a warning. Remove the dependencies and then delete the asset version. The *API instances* page displays each API asset's instances.

You can't delete a policy asset that is applied to any managed API instances. On the policy asset's page, the *APIs using this policy* tab shows which API instances have that policy applied. Use API Manager to remove the policy from the instances, and then delete the policy.

To delete a patch version of an asset:

. In the asset details, click *Manage versions*.
. Click the three dots menu and select *Delete version*.
+
When GAV reuse is enabled, you have the option to reuse the GAV for another asset. If you don't select this option, the GAV for that asset won't be available for reuse. If you do select it, the GAV can be reused for another asset.
. Click *Delete asset*.

To delete an entire asset, delete all of its patch versions.

== Restore a Deleted Asset

> You can restore assets that were deleted and their GAV information is not available for reuse using this endpoint:

Reviewer: I think that `restore` is not the intention of this endpoint. I think that `review` fits better

You can `review the` assets that were deleted [...]

Author: Thanks for clarifying this @juanmafc-mulesoft. I'll rewrite it.

If you try to delete an API or policy asset version with dependent API instances, Exchange shows a warning. Remove the dependencies and then delete the asset version. The *API instances* page displays each API asset's instances.

You can't delete a policy asset that is applied to any managed API instances. On the policy asset's page, the *APIs using this policy* tab shows which API instances have that policy applied. Use API Manager to remove the policy from the instances, and then delete the policy.

To delete a patch version of an asset:

. In the asset details, click *Manage versions*.
. Click the three dots menu and select *Delete version*.
+
When GAV reuse is enabled, you have the option to reuse the GAV for another asset. If you don't select this option, the GAV for that asset won't be available for reuse. If you do select it, the GAV can be reused for another asset.
. Click *Delete asset*.

To delete an entire asset, delete all of its patch versions.

== Review GAV Information for Deleted Assets
You can review details about deleted assets. Find out which GAV information is unavailable for reuse using this endpoint: 

`/api/v2/organizations/:organizationId/softDeleted`

> Identify unavailable GAVs of deleted assets for cleanup and permanent deletion. Then, you can make GAVs reusable.

Reviewer: you can make them reusable by executing a hard-delete using an API call. Do you think it would be useful to have this explained here?

```
DELETE '/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version' 
--header 'x-delete-type: hard-delete' 
--header 'Authorization: ***
```

Author: Yes, thanks for the call info.
